HighLife is a cellular automaton similar to Conway's Game of Life. It was
devised in 1994 by Nathan Thompson. It is a two-dimensional, two-state cellular
automaton in the "Life family" and is described by the rule B36/S23; that is, a
cell is born if it has 3 or 6 neighbors and survives if it has 2 or 3 neighbors.
Because the rules of HighLife and Conway's Life (rule B3/S23) are similar, many
simple patterns in Conway's Life function identically in HighLife. More
complicated engineered patterns for one rule, though, typically do not work in
the other rule.

he main reason for interest in HighLife comes from the existence of a pattern
called the replicator. After running the replicator for twelve generations, the
result is two replicators. The replicators will repeatedly reproduce themselves,
all on a diagonal line. Whenever two replicators try to expand into each other,
the pattern in the middle simply vanishes. The behavior of a row of Replicators
interacting with each other in this way simulates the one-dimensional Rule 90
cellular automaton, where a single replicator simulates a nonzero cell of the
Rule 90 automaton and a blank space where a replicator could be simulates a zero
cell of Rule 90.[1] Replicators can be used to engineer other more complex
patterns, such as glider guns and high period oscillators. It is also possible
to make slow spaceships using the replicator, but no explicit examples have yet
been found. Nevertheless, a simple c/6 diagonal spaceship has been found, known
as the bomber.

It has been proven that replicators exist in Conway's Life as well.

Retrieved from
"http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=HighLife&oldid=460001089" Categories:
Cellular automaton rules This page was last modified on 10 November 2011 at
18:05. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
License; additional terms may apply. See Terms of use for details. Wikipedia® is
a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit
organization.

